# Ground Materials



### VPGroundMaterialManager

Manages the different ground materials in the scene associating each one with an Unity PhysicMaterial.

< pic: ground material manager inspector + Hierarchy with the gameobject selected >

A GameObject with a VPGroundMaterialManager component should be available at the scene for the
vehicles to use the properties of the ground materials.

When a wheel of a vehicle touches any non-trigger collider it queries the VPGroundMaterialManager
instance passing the PhysicMaterial of the touched collider (it may be null if the collider has no
physic material assigned). The Ground Material Manager looks up the physic material in its
**Ground Materials** list and returns the first `GroundMaterial` object that matches the given
physic material. If no match is found then the **Fallback** material is returned.

### GroundMaterial

The `GroundMaterial` class holds the data and objects associates to a specific ground material. The
Ground Materials are defined and managed at the VPGroundMaterialManager component. Ground Materials
are used by the vehicle and its add-ons.

< pic: ground material inspector >

Physic Material
:	The Unity physic material associated to this ground material. Used for finding the Ground
	Material when wheel hits a collider with that physic material assigned.

Grip
:	Grip multiplier of the surface. Some reference examples are:

|  Surface   | Grip |
| ---------- | ---- |
| Dry tarmac | 1    |
| Wet tarmac | 0.82 |
| Snow       | 0.3  |
| Ice        | 0.1  |

Drag
:	Drag force based on the speed of the wheel over the surface. The formula used for computing the
	force magnitude is:

	$$ F_d = \rho \times F_z \times v^2 $$

	where:

	- $F_d$ is the drag force in Newtons
	- $\rho$ is the drag coefficient
	- $F_z$ is the downforce in Kilonewtons (KN, newtons * 0.001)
	- $v$ is the velocity of the wheel over the surface in m/s

Marks Renderer
:	Optional reference to a [VPGroundMarksRenderer](#vpgroundmarksrenderer) component for drawing the
	tire marks on this ground material. Marks will be triggered by the component [VPTireEffects](vehicle-addons.md#vptireeffects)
	if available in the vehicle.

Particle Emitter
:	Optional reference to a [VPGroundParticleEmitter](#vpgroundparticleemitter) component for
	emitting particles on this ground material. Particles will be triggered by the component
	[VPTireEffects](vehicle-addons.md#vptireeffects) if available in the vehicle.

Surface Type
:	A _hint_ on the type of surface. It's mostly used by the vehicle add-on components such as
	[VPAudio](vehicle-addons.md#vpaudio) for playing different effects.

	- Hard surfaces: asphalt, tarmac, concrete, metal...
	- Soft surfaces: offroad, mud, grass, sand, gravel...

### VPGroundMarksRenderer

Dynamically creates and renders the marks over the ground.

Each type of marks is generated by a VPGroundMarksRenderer component bound to a specific
[GroundMaterial](#groundmaterial). The component [VPGroundMaterialManager](#vpgroundmaterialmanager)
manages all the Ground Materials and Ground Mark Renderers for the scene.

< pic: VPGroundMarksRenderer inspector >

Mode
:	Conditions that trigger the tire marks:

	- Pressure And Skid: marks are generated when tire is skidding over the surface. The intensity
		of the marks depend on the vertical force (pressure) and the slip velocity.
		Example: typical skid marks on tarmac.
	- Pressure Only: marks are generated always when the tire is touching the surface. The
		intensity of the marks depend on the vertical force (pressure) only. Example: tire marks
		on mud.

Pressure Boost
:	Intensification of the marks with pressure.

Max Marks
:	Maximum number of mark segments the renderer will handle. Old marks will be faded out
	progressively according to the _Fade Out Range_ parameter.

	&fa-warning; The number of marks has direct influence on the performance. The entire mesh with
	the marks is discarded and re-created each time new segments are added.
	{: .alert .alert-warning }

Min Distance
:	Minimum distance among two consecutive tire marks.

Ground Offset
:	Distance over the surface the marks are generated at. Increase if Z-fighting problems are
	observed among the marks and the surface.

Texture Offset Y
:	Offset in the vertical direction the marks texture is clamped at. This improves the visual
	continuity of marks when the texture don't fully wraps around on the V coordinate.

Fade Out Range
:	Proportion of the old marks that will be progressively faded out when new marks are generated.

Material
:	The Mesh Renderer for the marks will use this Material when creating it in runtime. It won't
	be used if a Mesh Renderer is provided in edit time.

### VPGroundParticleEmitter

Controls an Unity Particle System for creating the particle effects over the ground. Requires a
Particle System to be provided and configured.

Each type of particle effect is generated by a pair VPGroundParticleEmitter - ParticleSystem. The
VPGroundPArticleEmitter is bound to a specific [GroundMaterial](#groundmaterial). The component
[VPGroundMaterialManager](#vpgroundmaterialmanager) manages all the Ground Materials and Ground
Particle Emitters for the scene.

< pic: VPGroundParticleEmitter inspector + Particle System folded >

Mode
:	Conditions that trigger the particle effect:

	- Pressure And Skid: the tire skidding over the surface triggers the particle effect. The
		intensity of the effect depends on the vertical force (pressure) and the slip velocity.
		Example: tire smoke on burnouts.
	- Pressure And Velocity: the wheel moving on the surface triggers the particle effect. The
		intensity of the effect depends on the vertical force (pressure) and the speed. Example:
		dust clouds on sand.

Emission Rate
:	Rate at which the particles are emitted.

Emission Shuffle
:	Randomness ratio on the emission rate.

Max Lifetime
:	Maximum lifetime of each particle.

Min Velocity, Max Velocity
:	Velocity range for applying intensity to the effect in the _Pressure And Velocity_ mode.

Wheel Velocity Ratio
:	How much of the velocity of movement of the wheel is applied to the particle.

Tire Velocity Ratio
:	How much of the tire velocity over the ground (slip) is applied to the particle.

Color 1
:	Tint color for the particles.

RandomColor, Color 2
:	If RandomColor is checked, a random color in the range Color1 - Color2 will be applied to each
	new particle.
